in tiny jars probably the cutest animal
of all is the chipmunk that lives in the
northern forests of America but that
cute little creature has a problem
because living there the winters are
absolutely brutal so the only way it can
survive is to find some way of getting
through those cold months now if you're
a bear
you can hibernating you take on lots and
lots of fat and you can use that fat
during the winter but if you're tiny you
can't do that
so the chipmunk has have another
strategy and what it does is it furrows
underground and then spends a month or
so before the winter comes furiously
frantically collecting acorns now
collecting acorns for a little creature
like that that's a challenge in its own
right because they're big you know and
it's animals only this sort of size but
it has an amazing strategy and that's to
do this cheeks because as it goes out
and collects it picks up one it shoves
it in its mouth and it pushes it into
the side of its cheek and it goes and
collects lava and it pushes into the
other side and another one another one
we were watching this I think this is
extraordinary these these acorns seemed
about you know half the size of this
animal's head so how many could it do it
like one two then it was three four five
yes and then eventually managed to stick
one in this little in its teeth at the
front of its mouth and squash with these
huge bulging bulging pouches and it does
that time and time and time again until
it builds a store underground of maybe
even a thousand or so nuts the other
challenge that these little Chipmunks
face is that there are lots and lots of
Chipmunks in these woods and they all
want the acorns
so inevitably there's a bit of
competition to put it politely about
collecting these acorns and if they get
the chance they'll try and fight for
them or even steal them from each other
and that creates incredible drama and
that's what makes this sequencing tiny
chance so strong to see how Chipmunks
survive the winter
collect their acorns and what happens
when two chipmunks meet watch tiny
giants